PRO-1152 relationships (#67)
apostrophecms/a3-docs: docs/guide/relationships.md

::: note
If you have experience with Apostrophe 2, this may already sound familiar. It is an updated version of the A2 "join" field types.
:::

There are many use cases for relationships, but one common use is categorization. You may have a blog with dozens of articles covering several topics. If you make a piece type for "Topics" and select a topic on each article, you can then do things such as filtering the articles by topic. Let's take a look at how this works.

## The anatomy of a relationship field

We will start with a basic blog article piece type with only an area field for the article text.

```js
// modules/article/index.js
module.exports = {
  extend: '@apostrophecms/piece-type',
  fields: {
    add: {
      body: {
        label: 'Article text',
        type: 'area',
        options: {
          max: 1,
          widgets: {
            '@apostrophecms/rich-text': {}
          }
        }
      }
    },
    group: {
      basics: {
        label: 'Basics',
        fields: [ 'title', 'body' ]
      }
    }
  }
};
```

::: note

> For the purposes of this guide, we will focus on the piece type code. If following along, refer to the [pieces guide](/guide/pieces.md) for more information on adding piece types, including instantiating the modules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the [pieces guide](/guide/pieces.md) for more information on adding piece types.
```

        fields: [ 'title', 'body', '_topics' ]
      }
    }
};
```

Like with all fields, we identify the field type, `type: 'relationship'`, and give it a display label. The other two properties are new.

| New properties | What is it? |
| -------------- | ----------- |
| **`withType`** | This identifies the Apostrophe doc type that can connect on the field |
| **`builders`** | Field query builders, specifically using the `project` filter. This limits the data that is fetched from the connected doc. It is optional, but recommended for improved performance. [See the relationship field reference for detail.](/reference/field-types/relationship.md#filtering-related-document-properties) |

::: note
**Why does the field name start with an underscore?** You may have noticed that the field name is `_topics`, *not* simply `topics`. Field names that begin with an underscore indicate that a *reference* will be saved to the database document, not all the data being referenced.

In the case of a relationship field, the `_id` of the connected doc is saved. Since that connected doc may change, the actual data will be fetched when the relationship is used so it is always up to date.
:::

> ## Connecting related docs in the interface

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Creating relationships in the interface
```

> When someone creates or edits an article, the editor will now include a relationship field. They can type in the name of a topic or use the "Browse" button to view the full list of topics to choose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once a relationship field is added to the schema, the editor will now include a relationship field. They can type in the name of a topic or use the "Browse" button to view the full list of topics to choose.
```
Something like this.

![The topics relationship field](/images/relationship-autocomplete.png)

![The chooser interface for the topics relationship field](/images/relationship-chooser.png)

> ## Limiting the number of connected docs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Limiting the number of relationships
```

> Sometimes a doc should only connect to one other doc through a relationship field. Other times you may want to require a minimum number of relationships. Both can be achieved using the `min` and `max` settings on relationship fields.

Reviewer: Sometimes only one relationship is required, but sometimes, you want many.

```javascript
_topics: {
  type: 'relationship',
  label: 'Blog post topic',
  withType: 'topic',
  min: 2,
  max: 5,
  builders: {
    project: {
      title: 1,
      _url: 1
    }
  }
}
```

See the full table of [relationship field settings](/reference/field-types/relationship.md#settings) in the reference section.

## Using a relationship in templates

Relationship fields can be referenced in templates like any other field as a property on the context object. If there is any, the field data will be an array of objects.

A blog article show page template may include this code snippet:

```django
{# module/article-pages/views/show.html #}
<p>Topics:</p>
<ul>
  {% for topic in data.piece._topics %}
    <li>{{ topic.title }}</li>
  {% endfor %}
</ul>
```

Since the data is fetched in an array, we use the `{% for %}` tag to loop it. If there is a maximum of one connected doc, you could reference it directly using the array index:

```django
{# module/article-pages/views/show.html #}
<p>Topic: {{ data.piece._topics[0] }}</p>
```

<!--
TODO: Uncomment this section once reverse relationships are fixed in core so we can confirm behavior.

> ## Reading the relationship from the "reverse" side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Reverse relationships
```

> Relationships are directional, but you can still read the relationship from the opposite direction using a `reverseRelationship` field. A `reverseRelationship` field must be reflecting an existing `relationship` field. **It has no user interface or property in database documents.** It is simply a signal for Apostrophe to populate data when fetching a document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relationships are directional, but you can still read the relationship from the opposite direction using a `reverseRelationship` field. A `reverseRelationship` field must reflect an existing `relationship` field. **It has no user interface or property in database documents.** It is simply a signal for Apostrophe to populate data when fetching a document.
```

In the example above of articles and topics, you might want to give each topic their own page showing every article using that topic. To do that, add a `relationshipReverse` field to the topic piece type:

```javascript
// modules/topic/index.js
module.exports = {
  extend: '@apostrophecms/piece-type',
  fields: {
    add: {
      _articles: {
        type: 'relationshipReverse',
        withType: 'article',
        reverseOf: '_topics'
      }
    }
  }
};
```

> You don't need to use a fields `group` setting here since the `relationshipReverse` field has no user interface.

Reviewer: Note?
